You:


SQL INSERT Explain with Example ? In Detail ? 
SQL INSERT Explain With Wh Questions ?
------------------
ChatGPT:


Certainly! The SQL INSERT statement is used to add new records (rows) to a table in a database. It allows you to insert data into specific columns of a table. Let's break down the INSERT statement using the "Wh-questions":

What?

What is the purpose of the INSERT statement?
The INSERT statement is used to add new records to a table in a database.

Where?

Where does the data go?
The data is inserted into a specific table in the database.

Which?

Which table are you inserting data into?
You specify the target table where you want to insert data.

Who?

Who initiates the INSERT statement?
The database user or the application interacting with the database initiates the INSERT statement.

When?

When do you use the INSERT statement?
You use the INSERT statement when you want to add new records to a table, such as when a user submits a form with data to be stored in the database.

Why?

Why would you use the INSERT statement?
To add new data to a table, which could be information collected from users, new entries, or any other relevant data.

How?

How do you use the INSERT statement?
The INSERT statement has the following general structure:

sql
Copy code
INSERT INTO table_name (column1, column2, column3, ...)
VALUES (value1, value2, value3, ...);

table_name: The name of the target table where you want to insert data.
(column1, column2, column3, ...): The list of columns into which you want to insert data.
VALUES (value1, value2, value3, ...): The values you want to insert into the specified columns. The order of values must match the order of columns.

Here's a detailed example:

Let's say you have a table named employees with columns id, first_name, last_name, and department.

sql
Copy code
INSERT INTO employees (id, first_name, last_name, department)
VALUES (1, 'John', 'Doe', 'HR');


In this example:

The employees table is the target table.
The id, first_name, last_name, and department columns are specified.
The values 1, 'John', 'Doe', and 'HR' are inserted into the corresponding columns.

This would insert a new record into the employees table with the specified values.

Remember that the INSERT statement can insert data into one row at a time. If you want to insert multiple rows in a single INSERT statement, you can provide multiple sets of values within the VALUES clause separated by commas.
------------------
